Q.1 Who devloped Python programming language?
Answer: Guido van Rossum created python programming language.

Q.2 Which type of Programming does Python support?
Answer: Python is an interpreted programming language, which supports object-oriented, structured, and functional programming.

Q.3 Is Python case sensitive when dealing with identifiers? 
Answer: yes python is a case sensitive language. when dealing with identifiers it treats upper case and lower case diffrentely.

Q.4 What is the correct extension of the Python file? 
Answer: the correct extension of the Python file is Py.

Q.5 Is Python code compiled or interpreted?
Answer: Python has a interpreted code.

Q.6  Name a few blocks of code used to define in Python language?
Answer: 

if, elif, and else keywords, for different conditions.

for and while keywords for recrurring or repeating codes multiple times.

for example:

a=input("Are you student of PW skill type yes or NO")
for i in range (1,5,1):
      if (a=='yes' or a=='Yes' or a=='YES' or a=='Yes' or a=='YEs' or a=='yEs' or a=='yeS'):
          print("PW skills classes is awesome")
      elif (a=='no' or a=='NO' or a=='No' or a=='nO'):
          print("try PW skills class its awesome")
      else:
          print("type only yes or no please")
          
Q7.State a character used to give single-line comments in Python?
Answer: # hash is used to give single-line comments in Python.

Q8.Mention functions which can help us to find the version of python that we are currently working on? 
Answer: sys.version 

Q9.Python supports the creation of anonymous functions at runtime, using a construct called?
Answer: Lambda

Q10. What does pip stand for python? 
Answer: Pip is a package-management system which is write in Python and it is used to install and manage software packages.

Q.11 Mention a few built-in functions in python? 
Answer:
print()
str()
float()
max()
min()
type()
len()
id()

Q.12 What is the maximum possible length of an identifier in Python? 
Answer: 79 character

Q.13 What are the benefits of using Python?
Answer: 
it is open source.
it is as easy as english language.
less code.
less complex codes.
vast libraries.

Q.14  How is memory managed in Python?
Answer: Memory management in Python involves a private heap containing all Python objects and data structures. The management of this private heap is ensured internally by the Python memory manager. 

Q15. How to install Python on Windows and set path variables? 
Answer: 

Here are the steps to install Python on Windows and set path variables:

Download the latest version of Python from the official website (https://www.python.org/downloads/).

Run the Python installer and follow the prompts to complete the installation process.

Open the Command Prompt and type the following command: python. This will start the Python interpreter, which you can use to check if Python has been installed correctly.

To set the path variables:

Go to Start menu, search for “Environment Variables”, and click on “Edit the system environment variables”.
In the System Properties window, click on “Environment Variables”.
Scroll down to the “System Variables” section and look for the “Path” variable, then click on “Edit”.
Click on “New” and add the path to the Python installation directory, typically C:\PythonXX\, where XX is the version number of Python installed.
Restart the Command Prompt and type the following command: python. This will start the Python interpreter, which you can use to check if the path has been set correctly.
Now you have successfully installed Python on Windows and set the path variables.


Q16. Is indentation required in python? 
Answer: Yes it is required which is use by the help of spaces(whitespaces). without the proper indenting in Python code, IndentationError occurs and the code will not get compiled.



